# Welcome to React 101

## What is React?

React is a Javacript library with one simple aim: to build __User Interfaces__.  Yes, React is only concerned with providing a front-end to an application.  The beauty of React is that it enables your UI to be broken down into individual _components_, which may be shared and reused across your application.

There are many reasons that make React so popular for development teams, but a few that stand out are:

- React is just JavaScipt library, not a framework.  While there are established patterns that show up in React development, there is no heavy framework to set up and learn.  The better you know JavaScript, the quicker you can pick up React - and conversely - knowing React will make you a much better JavaScript developer: skills that will translate to many other areas of web development.

- React allows you to break down your UI into reusable components.  This makes React very popular with development teams of all sizes, as individual components can be developed (and tested) in parallel.

- React is FAST.  On the web, React makes use of what they call a Virutal DOM.  When a component changes, _only that part of the DOM is updated_.  Read more [here!](https://hackernoon.com/virtual-dom-in-reactjs-43a3fdb1d130)


## What you will need

- `node`: For this course you will need [`node`](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed globally on your machine.  We will be installing `react` and `react-dom` into our project via `npm`.
- Familiarity with JavaScript and ES6 patterns.

Ok, let's go!

---

## [Next ->](../01.Lessons/02.GeneratingUI.md)